Many philosophers, scientists and others have uttered the phrase, "Change is the only constant", or similar. It is true of all facets of life that this is the case. If you work with computers, in IT or any high technology in at least the past twenty years, you know that there are few other areas of modern society in which change occurs as fast, if any. There have been numerous changes in my life in the past few years, professionally and personally, and I am always contemplating new changes. Let's reflect on some changes and discuss some of the changes I'm contemplating currently.
We'll reflect on the changes which have occurred during 2010 first. There were a modest number for me, most professionally. Any regular visitors of this site will know that I've changed the design for the blog a couple of times, and even my site once after working out a common design for both. I changed jobs about mid year, which was interesting as usual, just not as exciting as lead to believe. Got a slight remodel of the house after a small fire, nearly exclusively due to smoke damage. There were probably others as well but those are the most significant which I can think of at present.
2011 and Forward

Looking forward into 2011 there are changes which I'm contemplating already to enact in the new year. Some are small changes, others are bigger. Some I have just started to think about, others I have already begun laying ground work for. Some are completely within my control, others are highly dependent upon variables completely outside of my control. Most are not new ideas though and I have given a fair amount of consideration to them for some time, just have not thought seriously about them until this point. These are not "New Year Resolutions" I just happened to have enough slow down to consider these in further detail.
