For those with disabilities living with such can be a challenge. But for some these challenges may not be manifest to others. As everyone who reads this blog knows my youngest son has Down Syndrome. This is a chromosomal defect where instead of two copies of the 21st chromosome he has three. There are many known and expected issues which accompany Down Syndrome which can be debilitation for an individual with this diagnosis. As Down Syndrome has a known genetic component testing is 100% accurate. But what about for other disabilities? Autism Spectrum Disorders (ASD) for example have no definitive medical test which can be performed providing a 100% accurate result to date. ASDs to date are diagnosed primarily upon highly subjective tests therefore are far less accurate. For those with ASDs the full extent of their disabilities may not be uncovered with their diagnosis for a myriad of reasons, if they are even provided with a diagnosis.
Now you are thinking to yourself why did I choose ASDs? Is it because of the fact that Autism is one of the most misunderstood and highly debatable medical issues currently? No, it's a bit more personal than that. Most of you do not know that currently my oldest son is undergoing testing to determine if he falls on the spectrum. He's shown traits and characteristics which would indicate that there is a strong possibility that he is on the spectrum. Even closer to home, and something even fewer have any knowledge of, than my own child is myself, self-diagnosed with Asperger's Syndrome in 2003 after approximately 150 hours of research and self reflection. So what sparked such an extensive, and odd for a non-medical professional or student, research project? An article in Wired Magazine published two years earlier entitled, The Geek Syndrome. I stumbled across this, not exactly recalling how at the moment, and read the article, relating to the individuals being discussed. I then took the
