"The Network is the ComputerTM" is a marketing term coined by Sun Microsystems that implies, and rightfully so, that the entire network constitutes the computing environment. As computing has evolved over the years networking of dispersed computer systems became necessary first of all to achieve faster compute speeds for super computing and has progressed over time to be a necessity to have a "true computing experience". Now, it is true that you can utilize a PC without a network or Internet connection, but you are limited to local applications some of which may not fully function without network connectivity. But is this what Sun Microsystems is talking about in their mantra? Not exactly, Sun Microsystems use of this phrase implies much more then an optional utility, and I heartily agree. I'm going to touch on some of the ways that the full effect of this phrase is realized and a few of those items I'll expound upon in more detail in later posts.
The first thing that I think of when I hear the phrase, "The Network is the ComputerTM", is that of thin clients.  With thin clients the network is no longer optional and effectively becomes the user input/output bus. The truest form of thin client technology is exhibited in Sun Microsystems Sunray ultra-thin client architecture. I'll go into more detail as to why I have come to this conclusion in a later post. Other thin client technologies include The Linux Terminal Server Project, NoMachines NX server and client, Microsoft Windows Terminal Services and Citrix. There are variations and derivatives of these technologies as well. The Sunray and LTSP solutions and variants are capable of working without a host OS resident on the clients hardware, although some firmware is required for the basic functionality of the hardware. The latter all require a resident host OS, and are typically accomplished through an embedded OS, which could pose a security issue in the event of lax patch updating of those devices. With the exception of LTSP all of the other technologies referred to allow for suspension and resuming of sessions from any other client out of the box.
Community data centers
Grid/utility/elastic/cloud computing
