AT&T Drops the Ball
###################
:date: 2008-09-22
:slug: att-drops-the-ball

Rachel and I are in the process of finishing moving to our new house. In
this process we completed a move order online for our phone and Internet
service through `AT&T`_ whom we've been using for our local phone
service and DSL Internet access for some time now. When we placed the
order on the second of September we received notification that the
completion date for the phone service would be on the sixth and the
eighth for the DSL service. In my previous moves I've not run into any
issues with moving service, well not this time.

When we brought the phones over on the sixth and connected them we were
not receiving a dial tone. I didn't have time that day but over the next
couple of days checked this from multiple jacks in the house and from
the NID. I called `AT&T`_ and filed a trouble ticket on that issue. The
technician came out the next day and told Rachel that he had to do a few
things that normally aren't necessary to correct the issue. At this
point it was past the eighth and the DSL wouldn't sync up. I gave this a
couple of days and still nothing. I took the modem to the NID and tested
it there, same result. This is when the ball really starts getting
dropped by `AT&T`_.

I called `AT&T`_ in the evening on the eleventh and got to the DSL
Internet support group. The first technician I spoke with was working
from a script and was pissing me off. He was asking for me to do things
that I know would not work, like restarting my computer, especially
since I was not getting sync from the NID. I had explicitly told him
this a number of times yet he kept asking me to do these unrelated tasks
and I continued to tell him to stop working from a script because the
issue wasn't local. I finally got fed up with dealing with this idiot,
who was just doing his job as he was explicitly told to do, and asked to
speak to someone that wasn't going to work from a script or a manager.
This is something that I have major issues with and will comment on
later. I ended up speaking with a manager and he said that he was going
to file the trouble ticket on the DSL service since I wasn't getting
sync at the NID. About 45 minutes to an hour later I received an
automated message stating that they found trouble on the line and were
going to dispatch to correct the issue.

In the afternoon on the twelfth I received another automated message
stating that they corrected the issue. I got home and checked the modem
and it still was not able to sync. I wasn't able to test at the NID
again due to the fact that that weekend as it was raining constantly. I
checked at the NID on Monday evening and there still was no sync. Now
the original confirmation stated that the order was going to be
completed by the eighth but it was now the fifteenth. So I called back
into the support and referenced the ticket that I had. I spoke with a
gentleman who stated that there was no order. No order? When I spoke
with the technicians the week prior they saw the order and acknowledged
that it was a move order. He transfered me over to provisioning and they
said that there was never a move order in the system. I knew this was
not the case because I could still see it from the account manager on
`AT&T's`_ site. I got transfered over to another department, this time a
warm transfer instead of a cold transfer so I wouldn't have to explain
everything again. They stated that there was a cancel order on the DSL
and that a move order for the service was never issued. They stated that
they couldn't place the order for service until that had cleared, which
it wasn't going to clear until later that night. I was given a months
credit at that time for the DSL service and then instructed to call back
the next day.

When I called the next day the first person that I got after explaining
everything was going to cold transfer me to another department. I
complained loudly and stated that I wanted a warm transfer, that I was
on hold over an hour and a half the previous day and didn't want to have
to explain myself again to someone else. They got me over to someone
that was able to take the order for me. This was the sixteenth and the
person was hoping to get an install date of the eighteenth. Well that
didn't happen, she got a date of the twenty-second. I used to work for a
CLEC and asked for an expedited order. She put me on hold and talked
with someone from the escalations department. She came back on the phone
said that she was going to connect me and that if they weren't able to
expedite that the install would still be prior to 2000 (8:00 PM EDT) on
the twenty-second. I spoke with the person from escalations and she said
that they were all sent an email from upper management stating
explicitly that they were under no circumstances to even ask about
expedited orders. I asked if this applied to CLECs as well and she said
she wasn't aware of the details.

Now there are a few things through this where AT&T could have done
better. There are also some things that should have never happened.

-  When I stated that I tested at the NID and was not receiving sync the
   technician should have immediately started a trouble ticket and not
   bothered with trying to walk me through unrelated troubleshooting
   steps. This is a result of not hiring qualified technicians and/or
   not allowing technicians to work away from scripts. This not only
   wastes the customers time but also that of `AT&T`_ due to having to
   spend hours on pointless troubleshooting. This is something that I
   massively hate to see having worked for a CLEC DSL provider and a web
   host, but I won't dwell on this further in this article and will
   leave it for a later post.
-  The order just disappeared from their view, although I could still
   see it from my account access. How this is possible I have no clue,
   obviously they have too many disconnected systems that not everything
   gets updated. The order did update in my account access from having a
   due date of the eighth to no specified due date at some point after
   talking to technical support the first time.
-  I should have never been cold transfered and have to provide account
   information, verify myself or to completely explain everything over
   again. Only twice through this whole thing did I not have to do this,
   being transfered about 6-10 times. `AT&T`_ needs to revise their
   internal procedures to better serve their customers and to reduce
   costs. If a customer has to speak to individuals in a different
   department and must provide in detail the reason that they are
   calling to each person they get transfered to, and not just the
   first, then the company no longer cares about their customers. This
   is detrimental to the long term viability of a company. Unfortunately
   companies such as `AT&T`_ that more or less have customer loyalty due
   being the only option in many markets will likely never change due to
   the mentality of we know what the customer wants better then the
   customer does. This is seen in other areas and companies as well but
   I won't comment on them here.
-  At one point I was told that my DSL service was canceled and that
   there was no transfer order. I was never notified prior to this
   conversation on the fifteenth that my DSL service was canceled. Never
   should a service that I'm paying for be canceled without first
   notifying me, whether it be due to suspected contract violations or
   inability to properly update your own systems. The customer should
   always be notified and confirm that termination is going to occur
   before it actually takes place.

As of my posting this article the DSL service is up and I'm no longer
having issues with getting the modem to sync. I'm still not very happy
with `AT&T`_ and their handling of this situation, or rather lack
thereof. I will continue to utilize `AT&T's`_ DSL service for the
moment, but if anything like this occurs again I will be looking for a
new service provider unless they offer me free service for a couple of
years at least, which is unlikely to happen.

.. _AT&T: http://www.att.com/
.. _AT&T's: http://www.att.com/
