My Loving Wife
##############
:date: 2008-10-24
:slug: my-loving-wife

Today is the two year anniversary for my wife and myself. In the time
that we've been married we've enjoyed many things together. We've moved
together to 3 different locations after being wed, had a son and bought
a house. It has definitely been a great two years which we've spent
together thus far.

For as long as either my wife or I can remember we've known each other.
We grew up together in the same congregation and knew each others
families moderately well. Rachel is five years younger then myself but
does not act like it. We were wed on October 25th, 2006. For those of
you that pulled up a calendar you'll see that that was a Wednesday. We
were wed at the Calhoun County Court House by a magistrate. I won't go
into detail as to why that was outside of stating that there was some
adverse pressure being applied by some of our parents.

On our first anniversary Rachel was pregnant and we had just finished
moving from Albion to Lansing. Now on our second anniversary we've been
living in Lansing for just over a year, and have been in the house which
we purchased for just over a month. We were unable to go out for our
anniversary last year but this year we will be dining at `The Claddagh
Irish Pub in Lansing`_. We will be dining alone thanks to some of our
friends offering to watch Ayden for us that evening.

What the future holds for my wife and I, we cannot state. I hope that it
is joyful and well spent. I hope that Rachel and I are able to enjoy
everything we want to together. There will be bad times that come but
together we will get through it.

To my beautiful loving wife, I love you.

.. _The Claddagh Irish Pub in Lansing: http://www.claddaghirishpubs.com/
