Random Updates
##############
:date: 2009-05-05
:slug: random-updates

I've been busy and haven't had much time to update my blog until now. My
wife and I purchased a house and moved into it. I've searched for a new
job, done a lot of interviewing, and took a new job with a company that
found me, instead of me searching them out. And a number of other small
excursions which have taken up much of my time. This will hopefully be
the first post of many regular posts yet to come, so let me start by
catching everyone up.

As you could probably ascertain from my previous posts Rachel and I have
bought a house in Lansing and are now living there instead of renting.
This is nice for us as our family grows as we will not have to worry
about attached neighbors either bothering us or us them. We've been
happily moved into the house since the beginning to middle of September
2008. We really enjoy the house as it does have a completely finished
basement. In further personal news Rachel and I found out in
January/February that we are expecting our second child. We found out at
the ultrasound that we should be expecting our second son any time
between the end of August to the beginning of October. We aren't 100%
sure of when the actual due date will be. We'll keep everyone updated as
things get closer and when he arrives.

You may notice that my blog is now under a new URL. This is due to the
fact that after leaving `Liquid Web`_ for my current job my hosting with
them is no longer free. I've relocated my site to a server running at my
house. As this is the case I've relocated the blog from being an
application within my website to a hosted blog on `Google's Blogger`_
service. I've done this for a couple of reasons but primarily to ensure
that I'd have adequate uptime and bandwidth in the event of increased
readership. This will also allow me more time to post to the blog,
hopefully, as I won't have to maintain code for that section of my site.

The last of my updates for now has to do with my employment. Starting in
the last couple of years of employment with `Liquid Web`_, especially in
the last 8 months that I was employed there, I began looking for and
applying for other jobs. Had a few interviews with potential employers
but the one that I ended up being offered and took was not one that I
applied for. No instead of applying for an opening a recruiter at
`Analysts International Corporation`_ contacted me about the middle of
December and setup an interview with the technical manager out of the
Lansing office. After the first interview I had a subsequent interview
with the director out of the Auburn Hills office. By the end of January
I had an offer which I accepted and began work for `Analysts
International Corporation`_ February 16th. So far I've enjoyed this job
tremendously and look forward to the further learning opportunities that
this job will provide to me.

That is it for now. Hopefully I'll be keeping the posts more up to date
as time goes and I'll work on getting some more technical oriented
postings up as well.

.. _Liquid Web: http://www.liquidweb.com/
.. _Google's Blogger: http://www.blogger.com/
.. _Analysts International Corporation: http://www.analysts.com/
