Revitalizing Passions
#####################
:date: 2013-06-28 03:18
:slug: revitalizing-passions

So today marked the end of Cisco Live 2013.  It was great to again be
in person for this event which provides so much for those in the
computer networking industry.  I attended last year as well and had the
privilege to be able to meet and speak with many great people I interact
with on Twitter.  I was also greatly privileged to participate in a
`Packet Pushers Podcast`_.  It was a great experience just as attending
Cisco Networkers was in 2004.  This year was great again, with even more
invigorating conversations with many that I interact with on Twitter,
and even some new people that I was able to meet at the event for the
first time.  I additionally was privileged to be able to record with the
Packet Pushers again this morning in conjunction with the crew from Tech
Field Day.  This time it was a more intimate setting with fewer people
but the same basic flow as the last episode I was on.

At this point you are probably wondering why I titled my blog in the
way that I did.  Well my last post was back in 2010.  I haven't had the
ability to post additional content here as I intend, in fact I have
roughly 15 posts in draft state some of which are just a title.  There
are numerous reasons for this although I won't get into that here as the
why is not necessarily germane to the intentions of this post.  But what
is germane is what is going to be revitalized.

First of all will be this blog.  I am going to be restructuring some
things so that this blog is where my technical and industry related
posts will land.  I will be migrating the personal posts that I have
made to this site to a personal blog.  I will attempt to post to this
particular blog at least once a month, with the goal of working up to at
least once a week over the next three to six months.  As far as the
content on this site, it will hopefully be mostly technical in nature
although I do intend to speak about industry related topics which may
not be as technically in depth.  It won't all be networking, as I am
heavily involved in Linux system administration and engineering as well,
and working on getting back into programming.  I will also likely be
posting on study progress and many of the technical posts will likely
directly stem from my studies.

That brings me to the second thing that I will be working on, and that
is certification and more focused study.  Most of my certifications have
lapsed due to varying circumstances around the times that they were
expiring.  I will be working on rectifying that but haven't worked out
what the plan for that will be yet.  I am working on determining what
that will be and I am hoping that one of the next two posts will be
regarding what the plan is going to be.

The final thing that I am going to be revitalizing, I kind of have
been for the past several months.  Although I have never been heavily
passionate about this particular subject in general, I have always been
as it pertains to making my job easier.  With the upcoming general
availability release of `Cisco's OnePK SDK`_ and the eventual release
of\ `Open Network Foundations Configuration Management Working Group`_ I
have a completely new enthusiasm for programming than I have in the
past.  I have been doing some development at work with regard to some
automations pertaining to our disaster recovery plans, but with the
upcoming changes that will be provided by Cisco ONE APIs there are many
improvements that can be made operationally not only for our
organization but all network organizations that are willing to embrace
where the future is leading.  I suspect that there will be numerous
posts regarding this coming in the near future.

That is it for now.  Participating in the community of network engineers
on Twitter and spending time talking with these individuals in person
the past two years at Cisco Live has not only rekindled my desire to
work on these things outlined here but also now the impetus to move
forward and begin developing plans to actually make it happen.  I will
be doing my best to remain loyal to the plan that I have at a high level
outlined here to make a greater contribution to the community which I
interact with and consume many great things from.  As soon as the Packet
Pushers episode we recorded this morning is posted I'll link to it from
this site as well.

.. _Packet Pushers Podcast: http://packetpushers.net/show-110-live-from-the-clus-2012-social-media-lounge/
.. _Cisco's OnePK SDK: http://www.cisco.com/go/onepk/
.. _Open Network Foundations Configuration Management Working Group: https://www.opennetworking.org/working-groups/configuration-management
