Change is the Only Constant
###########################
:date: 2014-03-xx xx:xx
:slug: change-only-constant

You have already noticed that the title of this article is a phrase that you
have heard many times before.  You may not be entirely sure of its origin but
it still strikes a familiar chord.  This translated phrase of one of the
philosophical tenants of Greek Philosopher `Heraclitus`_ has undoubtedly
influenced much of humankind's disruptive leaders, or at a minimum been the
ingrained impetus that has driven such.  The IT industry has always been in a
state of constant flux, something that few other industries can claim.
Currently the IT industry is undergoing the most disruptive changes to the
industry in the previous 10-15 years.  Arguably portions of the industry, if
not the whole, are being met with the fastest rate of change or amount of
disruptive changes in their history.  What are some of these?

======
DevOps
======

`DevOps`_ was arguably one of the first movements that has sparked the
multitude of changes we are seeing.  When Amazon began offering their
`Infrastructure as a Service`_ (IaaS) product in 2006, it definitely sent a
shock through the web hosting industry which I was employed in during the time.
Additionally their were other companies that leveraged similar methodologies or
even Amazon's services in unique ways.  Many in IT had never even conceived of
doing things in these ways and brushed off what Amazon, Etsy, Netflix and
Google were doing as experiments that would not last nor scale.  Ironically,
working in the web hosting industry at the time I and others thought that what
these companies were doing was normal, just in a newer more encompassing manner.

The 2009 `Velocity Conference`_ effectively began exposing what these companies
were doing.  The IT Operations team at Flickr, represented by `John Allspaw`_
and `Paul Hammond`_, expounded on their operations.  At Flickr operations and
development were not going off in their own paths, they were working together
with the QA teams as well as the business to ensure that everyone was working
toward a common goal.  Applying `Lean`_ and `Agile`_ techniques the team at
Flickr was able to dramatically increase the number of deployments to 10 per
day.  Separately `Jez Humble`_ and `Dave Farley`_ came to the same conclusions
as the team at Flickr, and codified this in their book `Continuous Delivery`_.
The processes and free flowing communication across the entire business set
Flickr up for success.

The `DevOps`_ movement is the organizational or cultural side of the puzzle, in
many ways brining the IT industry back to its roots as a true business enabler.
But this isn't what most people think of when they hear about `DevOps`_, they
think about the tools.

======================
Infrastructure as Code
======================

The technical aspects and tools of `DevOps`_ are what most people think of when
contemplating `DevOps`_.  While they are an important part of the `DevOps`_
puzzle, many people prefer to refer to these as a separate movement,
`Infrastructure as Code`_.  With `Infrastructure as Code`_, you move beyond
using version control and other software development technologies for just your
software development, and utilize these techniques for all of your
infrastructure as well.  No longer are you going from machine to machine to
apply updates and deploying code, you are now effectively deploying your entire
environment from source code.  Tools such as `SaltStack`_, `Ansible`_, `Chef`_,
`Puppet`_, `cfengine`_ are utilized for orchestration.

With `cfengine`_ having been publicly in use since around 1993 the concepts of
treating your infrastructure as code isn't exactly new.  What was new was that
these technologies and techniques were being utilized across numerous companies
encompassing many industries, instead of simply scientific, HPC, and IT focused
companies.  The use of `Infrastructure as Code`_ and `DevOps`_ by non-IT
businesses effectively told the enterprise and data processing computing models
of IT operations that they got it wrong.  Both the tools and techniques of
`Infrastructure as Code`_ and the cultural and organizational components of
`DevOps`_ reinforce and move forward the `UNIX`_ computing model.


==========
Postscript
==========

Highlighting further the theme of this post, I had originally began this post
in the beginning of 2011 as I was ending a contract and looking for a new
opportunity or starting my own business again.  Although at the time I had
already seen foreshadowing of much of what I have described in this post at
this time, not much of what I have detailed here was intended to be in the
original incarnation of this post.  As I have pointed out in the introduction,
change is constant, and nothing is precluded from such.

.. _Heraclitus:: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Heraclitus

.. _DevOps:: 

.. _Infrastructure as a Service::

.. _IaaS::
