"DevOps Engineer"?
##################

:slug: devops-engineer
:date: 

Recently talking with someone about their hiring woes and they mentioned that
they were having an extremely hard time finding a "DevOps Engineer".  This
struck a chord with me as I don't typically consider this to be a job title,
and I know from several conversations on Twitter that I am not alone in that
assumption.  Why the conflicted understandings between the two of us?


===============
What is DevOps?
===============

DevOps is intentionally a very vague and ambiguous term, by design of those
that coined the phrase.  Too often people confuse DevOps with lower level parts
of the overall movement such as Infrastructure as Code or Agile Operations.
Although these parts tend to be vital to an organization succeeding with being
a DevOps organization, it itself is not DevOps.  As you can see with just
trying to clear up some of the easy to distinguish aspects that it still
doesn't necessarily clear up any of the confusion.

The main reason that DevOps visionaries such as Gene Kim and Jez Humble try to
leave the definition of DevOps as ambiguous as possible was to allow
organizations to better adapt it to themselves.  As time has progressed there
has been some clarity on the relation of these tightly knit sub-movements into
a singular movement.  DevOps itself is usually best described as the cultural
components of the overall movement, but not divorced from the other aspects.
Being cultural means that it has influence over how the organization operates
and integrates IT as opposed to it being a separate business unit or cost
center.

The other two components that I mentioned, Infrastructure as Code and Agile
Operations, outline the processes and methods of enabling more efficient IT,
and by extension the types of tools in a general sense.  These two components
can be implemented by an operations organization in a traditional enterprise
and they would still gain benefit, but this is rare to find outside of
organizations moving towards DevOps enablement.


======================
Why not a DevOps Role?
======================

I stated in the opening that effectively I don't see DevOps belonging in a job
title.  As DevOps is encompassing across roles it is no less ambiguous to state
that you are a DevOps Engineer as opposed to an IT Engineer.  With either of
those titles you would have no way of determining if the individual you are
speaking with has their specialty in development, testing, or operations, or
where your job will be focused if you are looking for a job.

I know what you are thinking:  "Right, but isn't that the point of DevOps,
eliminate silos?"  Well, yes and no.  Depending on how an organization embraces
DevOps, and this doesn't necessarily depend on size, the silos may be gone or
present.  In my personal opinion having division of workforce is necessary for
management purposes, and as such makes sense to make those divisions with
functional groups.  This is where culture comes into play.  Without the open
nature of the DevOps culture communication breakdowns will be a detriment
regardless of whether you have silos or not, more so if you do.  What does not
make sense to me, at least until you get to massive scale, is having divisions
beyond the 3 overarching disciplines; Development, QA, Operations.

"OK, so if there are still silos, what have you achieved?"  Well, for an
organization embracing DevOps, just because there are still departments or
divisions inside of IT doesn't mean that there are silos.  Departments exist
for management hierarchy, but should not exist for each department to work
toward different goals than that of the organization.  When each department
works independently of the others, that is how a silo is formed.  When you have
departments, but individuals across those departments function as a single
team, you don't have silos in the traditional sense.

Taking that further, say that an organization has decided that all of IT will
be a single department, without traditional sub-groupings, do all of the
engineers do exactly the same job and have exactly the same title?  Well, of
course you could do this, but it doesn't necessarily make the most sense.  You
will still have subject matter experts even after you start down the path to
enabling DevOps, so why obfuscate out that distinction?
