Becoming a Producer in a Consumers World
########################################

:date: 2013-12-14 15:03
:slug: becoming-producer-in-consumers-world

We live in a society that is predominantly composed of consumers, not only of
products but also content.  Everyone fills the role of a consumer at some
point, but most never fill the role of a producer.  In this modern age content
is being produced at rates which have not been seen before in history.  What
does this mean for us that also want to be producers, and not merely consumers?
Let's take a look at this from my perspective, and hopefully allow you to draw
from my example.

Current State
=============

I read `Greg Ferro's <http://etherealmind.com>`_ book on technical blogging,
`Arse First Method of Technical Blogging
<https://leanpub.com/Technical-Blogging-Writing-Arse-First>`_, a couple of
times now to get some inspiration on getting posts created. Although I have a
few drafts that I've started, I still haven't gotten into the rhythm that I
want to be with creating content.  So, what is holding me back?

First issue has been time, more precisely lack of focused time.  When you are
trying to write in your free time, having limited free time is hardly
conducive.

Second when I have had free time I've been spending most of it consuming
content.  This post on `DevOpsU
<http://devopsu.com/blog/productivity-tip-let-it-cool/>`_ got me to thinking on
this subject for more than just writing.  I've spent time consuming, attempting
to gain inspiration, when in reality it is hampering my creativity.  This makes
sense to me as I have a number of automation projects I haven't gotten much
past writing high level ideas down for, and more drafts than posts on this
site.

Third has been my workflow.  Really this has been a lack of a workflow, or at
minimum a consistent method.

These really are the biggest issues that have plagued me.  What can be done to
overcome these obstacles?

Moving Forward
==============

For the first item, limited focused time?  This one there really isn't anything
that I can alter, other than making the time.  This will likely end up meaning
that I will be getting up earlier or staying up later to provide myself the
time that I need to pursue writing, for this blog along with some programming
activities I really want to pursue.  This also means that I will focus on
producing quality over a specific quantity, contrary to my previously stated
goals.

For the second item, consumption versus production?  This is where I will
likely have the most difficulty.  By nature I yearn to learn as much as I can.
Additionally I have always strived to have a multidisciplinary approach to my
career.  This means that articles on multiple topics easily catch my attention,
and can be applicable to my career.  So how am I going to move past being a
consumer first to being a producer?  I haven't exactly figured that out yet, in
precise detail anyway.  I will likely divert some of my consumption time to
production time.  Additionally I will likely prune back my RSS reader, removing
high volume feeds that I derive limited benefit from.  Same goes for my social
media activities, although will likely be implemented in a different fashion.

For the third item, workflow?  Taking some inspiration from Greg's book I've
been working on a workflow that will fit me.  Instead of learning yet another
markup language, my workflow will involve |rst|_ as I use it with my Python
programming, and am fairly versed with it already.  Additionally, I will not
continue to utilize `Blogger <http://www.blogger.com/>`_, this will be the last
post through the platform.  I'll be writing a separate article on the creation
workflow once I've migrated the site.

Closing Thoughts
================

We live in a world inundated with content the vast majority of which is subpar
at best.  We need more producers of content that is of high quality instead of
run of the mill.  With the great amount of static produced finding quality
through the noise can be difficult but should not be a deterrent to producing
quality content.  If you are like me and in the technology field, have a good
grasp on a topic, and are a decent writer, please help with producing quality
content.  That is my goal.  Remember quality will always mean more over
quantity, so focus on quality first.  After you get in a rhythm of reliably
producing quality then increasing the quantity will come naturally.

.. |rst| replace:: reStructuredText
.. _rst: http://http://docutils.sourceforge.net/rst.html
