If More People Would Realize...
###############################
:date: 2010-09-23
:slug: if-more-people-would-realize

So I read this article when it was first published but didn't get a
chance to blog about, been really busy, just read it again to refresh my
memory. The article highlights `management of Geeks, err, IT Staff, nope
Geeks, definitely Geeks`_. No matter how you look at it, nor how much
you don't believe yourself to be, there is a fairly high likelihood that
if you are in IT you are a Geek, and just because you are not in IT does
not mean that you are not a Geek.

Managing a Geek can be complicated, because they don't see, nor do they
exactly interact with, the world in the same way that non-Geeks do. Also
there are many types of Geek, and while there are some broad
generalizations which can be made between the types there are some
subtle differences that can make a big difference in how to manage the
type. The article really highlights the management of one type of Geek,
the logical.

It is logical that the logical Geek would be attracted to IT. What other
job function in virtually any vertical market that you may possibly have
an interest in working in is guaranteed to be both logical and mentally
challenging? There are logical Geeks that do decide to take a path other
than IT, which is great because who else would make the toys that the
rest of us logical Geeks want to play with at work and at home? IT
benefits the logical Geek that is not satisfied with doing just one
thing, it gives them the ability to pursue their hobby to make a living,
and the opportunity to learn about any and all professions that they
desire.

All the points in the article apply to all ranges of logical Geek. Any
manager, or aspiring manager, over IT should definitely evaluate to
ensure that they keep these points in mind. And don't be afraid to
convey them up the chain so that everyone in the management path is
aware how to best manage their IT staff. The list is not exhaustive, but
should be used as your base. You may find that managing your team does
not require anything beyond this, but involve your staff to see if there
is anything which you are currently doing which is rubbing the team the
wrong way, or which the team believes to be a good idea to do. Your
management style needs to be adaptive, just as your team must with the
rapid pace of change in our industry.

Most managers in IT organizations also tend to be logical Geeks. This
means that the manager should also be a member of the team, actively
assisting with the workload. Not only does this help the manager gain
and retain respect from those whom he is managing, but it helps him to
lead by example which is truly the best way to manage logical Geeks.
Additionally this will assist the manager in staying up to date with the
technology currently in use as well as in the pipeline. When managing
logical Geeks you and your team will be better off if you are seen more
as a team lead instead of a manager by your staff.

What type of Geek are you?

| 

| ------BEGIN GEEK CODE BLOCK-----

| Version: 3.12

| GIT/B d+@ s+: a- C++++$ UBLS++++$ P+> L+++ E--- W++ N+ o+ K-

| w--- O-- M V-- PS+ PE Y+ PGP+++ t+ 5+ X+ R tv+ b+ DI+ !D G+

| e h---- r+++ y+++

| -------END GEEK CODE BLOCK------

| 

| To Decipher Code - http://www.ebb.org/ungeek/

| 

To Learn About Code - http://www.geekcode.com/geek.html

.. _management of Geeks, err, IT Staff, nope Geeks, definitely Geeks: http://www.computerworld.com/s/article/9137708/Opinion_The_unspoken_truth_about_managing_geeks
