Overdue Updates
###############
:date: 2008-08-20
:slug: overdue-updates

Haven't updated the site in some time, primarily due to the fact that
`Drupal`_ sucks and I haven't had time to fix it. I'm working on
rewriting the entire site utilizing `Django`_ primarily because I
understand and prefer `Python`_ over `PHP`_, and the `Django`_ framework
is amongst the cleanest I've personally looked into. The transition to
`Django`_ will take some time for me to complete it so don't look for an
immediate change, and the gallery appears as if it is not going to
function right now so sorry for the lack of pictures. Now on to the
updates......

First and foremost Rachel and I had our first child on the 3rd of April.
Ayden is a healthy growing little boy. Nearing 5 months old now he is
starting to move around on his own now. He's been teething since just
before he was 3 months old. He is growing up so quick. I'll have more
updates regarding Ayden in the future.

Second on the big news update is that we are buying a house. We found a
nice 3 bedroom ranch in the southwest part of Lansing. The house was
built in the 1970's but has a virtually brand new exterior. The roof is
about 3 years old and the siding and windows are about 2 years. We are
scheduled to close on the 27th of August. We won't be moving into the
house right away as our lease at the town house isn't up until October
15th and we aren't done packing yet. There will likely be updates to
follow with regard to the house.

Thats it for major news. Work has been sucking it up lately. Upper
management decided it was best to move me back to general support from
working on the networking team which I established and built virtually
every networking service offered around, simply because I need to have a
fixed schedule and they arbitrarily wanted to change it to something
that wouldn't work for me. So needless to say I now hate my job as I'm
extremely over qualified for 99% of the issues I deal with in support
and am bored as I don't have anything challenging to work on. I'm
looking for a new job now, submitted my resume to a few companies and
hoping to hear back from them soon. Once we're into the house and
settled I am going to be working harder on obtaining the `CCIE, Cisco
Certified Internetwork Expert,`_ specifically the routing and switching,
and saving up some money so that I can take the written and lab. I'm
also considering obtaining the recently announced `CCDE, Cisco Certified
Design Expert.`_

Thats all I have in the way of updates at this time. I'm going to try to
keep the site more up-to-date from here on out, as long as `Drupal`_
doesn't crap out again.

.. _Drupal: http://drupal.org/
.. _Django: http://www.djangoproject.com/
.. _Python: http://www.python.org/
.. _PHP: http://www.php.net/
.. _CCIE, Cisco Certified Internetwork Expert,: http://www.cisco.com/web/learning/le3/ccie/index.html
.. _CCDE, Cisco Certified Design Expert.: http://www.cisco.com/web/learning/le3/ccde/index.html
