Personal
========

:url: personal/
:save_as: personal/index.html


I married my beautiful wife, Rachel, on October 25, 2006.  I've known my wife
practically from the day she was born, there is a five year difference between
us.  We dated for approximately six months before we were wed.  Neither of us
can imagine our lives without the other.

On April 3, 2008 our family expanded to include our first born son, Ayden.  He
is growing so fast and is extremely smart.  He is already showing much interest
in electronics and especially computers.  He loves being a big brother and
tries to help out now that Levi is here.  Neither Rachel nor myself can wait to
see what the future holds for Ayden.

As of September 16, 2009 Ayden is now a big brother, and Rachel and I are
parents of two boys.  Levi was born at home, footling breach, and delivered by
myself.  His entrance into the world was extremely fast.  `You can read about
his arrival here
<http://www.darrelclute.net/2010/10/our-newest-arrival-a-year-later/>`_.
Levi was tested for and confirmed to have `Down's Syndrome
<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Down%27s_syndrome>`_.
Rachel and I are looking forward to helping Levi as he grows and are looking
forward to seeing who Levi will be.

Our family grew again on January 13, 2012, with the birth of Liam.  Another
home birth, that was quite the arduous event as his labor was over 20 hours.

On January 9, 2014 we welcomed our fourth child, another boy.  David was again
a home birth, with a long prodromal labor the previous 11 days to his birth.

My hobbies primarily revolve around computers.  I enjoy running servers and
networks as a past time in addition to making a living doing such.  Those of
you with your past time as your primary occupation can truly appreciate how
enjoyable such can be.  For those that aren't in this situation it tends to be
difficult for them to see a separation of work and personal time and they can
even get frustrated with those of us that are able to enjoy this arrangement.

In addition to my primary hobbies I do enjoy spending time with my family and
friends.  I enjoy good quality television programs and movies, predominately
science fiction.  I also enjoy watching the occasional sports game, or even
playing.
